## Welcome to the blog
This is less of a typical blog and more an online journal where I write down my thoughts on various things that are on my mind at that period in time. I'm going to try to update this regularly. I will try to keep profanity to a minimum, but readers are advised that there will probably be a nonzero amount of profanity.

---

### 11 December, 2022
#### Classes and Finals
My mind is still very, very dead from making the economics notes and also working through the practice finals Prof. Ngo gave to us. Additionally, a lot of stuff went wrong on my topology exam, mostly stemming from a complete and utter inability to think during the exam period. I was sure I had eaten enough and even drank chocolate milk during the exam, but the questions were a mixture of curveballs, tedious problems, and the fact that I just didn't prepare for some of the problems. Might be my first B in a math class, which would suck, but I guess the bright side is that I'm done with the class. Even though I really did love the professor, there was just a lot of stuff going on in my life that the completion of the class is a good sign that stuff should (inshallah) become better.

The econ notes are pretty thorough (except for consumer theory — I mostly made this set of notes to double down on producer theory and monopolies). I think the final exam should have some mixture of the following:

- exchange economies question with utility maximization
- non-standard budget constraint or moving decision
- economic rent/situation with different types of producers
- public goods

I think my main issue with the exchange economies question on the practice exams was that I tried to work too fast. Of course, we are allotted three whole hours to take the final exam, which means that (theoretically speaking), I should be fine on the exam as long as I don't suddenly get the urge to leave as soon as possible.

#### Thoughts on Gentrification and Exclusion
In Los Angeles, there's often talk about "gentrification" (usually a signifier for neighborhood change, typically identified with new housing development, different restaurants, and rising rents) that's leading to people having to leave their communities, with much of the blame placed on the tech industry or new private market rate housing. Of course, I fall firmly on the side that gentrification — to the extent that it's a discussion about rising rents — is resolved via mass construction of housing ([here](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3867764) [are](https://direct.mit.edu/rest/article/doi/10.1162/rest_a_01055/100977/Local-Effects-of-Large-New-Apartment-Buildings-in) [some](https://ideas.repec.org/p/fer/wpaper/146.html) [papers](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3426103) showing that mass construction of housing does lead to decreasing rents both at the hyperlocal level and at the regional level).   

However, a problem emerges when you discuss this (pretty airtight) set of results with people who consider themselves to be opposed to gentrification, and this is where people lose me. Oftentimes, the gripe is about the cultural aspects of gentrification (different restaurants, demographic change, etc.), rather than the hard economic aspects. This class of people often oppose new housing development because by its very nature, new housing *must* gentrify neighborhoods by being new, and new housing must *necessarily* be for rich people (let alone that middle class people live in apartments, and the rich in large single family houses), and so on and so forth. This is where these people, who I often share views on homelessness responses or police with, lose me.

Of course, we have the normal consequentialist argument for allowing mass housing construction in every neighborhood, but I want to try making a deontological argument about why new housing development — yes, even in poor and gentrifying neighborhoods — ought to be welcomed, and people in low income neighborhoods are still betraying liberal/progressive values if they oppose new construction.

Take the case of an Ohio steelworker who is opposed to full immigration liberalization and voices their views on the subject accordingly — by voting for politicians who are against liberalizing immigration, posting their views on Twitter, etc. Even if they considered themselves a liberal, we would obviously consider this person to be betraying a core liberal value (namely, freedom of movement). If the item at hand was liberalization of low-skilled immigration, and that specific person opposed, we would still consider their belief xenophobic. And, similarly, if the item was to liberalize the H1-B visa (for highly-educated, highly-compensated technology workers), dogmatic opposition to liberalization would still be xenophobic. It is simply that freedom of movement for peaceful people is an important cornerstone of liberal beliefs, regardless of who does the freedom of movement.

I argue that even if the opponents to a new housing project are low-income, they still do maintain one type of privilege — namely, incumbency privilege. Opponents of new housing in their community, rich and poor alike, are unified by one simple fact, and that is that they already live there. It doesn't matter whether the new housing project is private, unsubsidized, market-rate housing, or subsidized, affordable housing, opponents of the project are still those that live in the local area, and future residents of the project do not. It makes very little sense to consider oneself a liberal and also be in favor of one's country restricting internal migration, yet a significant number of people who consider themselves liberal or progressive believe this system of *de facto* internal migration controls (by asking for local approval of housing projects) is compatible with their beliefs.

There are surely some keyhole solutions to ensure everyone becomes better off from a mass housing liberalization, such as a right to return for demolished units, but the fact still remains that blanket opposition to new housing construction in one's community *is* illiberal, and it doesn't matter whether the community is low income, majority-POC, or what have you. I think this is a much more just standard than the "sensitive communities" exception that was put in place in [Senate Bill 50](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_Senate_Bill_50_(2019)), because I believe every person and community ought to be able to accept newcomers without strife.  

Is this opinion controversial in Los Angeles? Probably, considering there was a new crop of NIMBYs elected in the recent election cycle, but I think one has to be consistent in their beliefs. If you're a liberal or progressive who considers strict immigration controls and xenophobia wrong, then you should not be opposed to new housing construction in your community. Even if your community is poor, or mostly POC. By all means, advocate for measures to ensure everyone wins from new construction, but opposing new housing construction is still exclusionary. 

---
